>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SATURDAY, MARCH 4: PRESIDENT
TRUMP TAKES TO TWITTER TO ACCUSE
PRESIDENT OBAMA OF WIRETAPPING
HIM DURING THE ELECTION; THE
CONFLICT IN YEMEN-- WHY IS THE
UNITED STATES MILITARY EXPANDING
ITS ROLE?; AND CITIZEN
VIDEOGRAPHERS DOCUMENT
INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS TO MAKE
LARGE CITIES MORE SUSTAINABLE.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS AT
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING,
AND THANKS FOR JOINING US.
IT HAS BEEN A LONG WEEK FOR THE
TRUMP WHITE HOUSE.
ATTORNEY GENERAL JEFF SESSIONS
RECUSED HIMSELF FROM ANY JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT INVESTIGATION INTO
RUSSIA'S POSSIBLE INTERFERENCE
WITH THE RECENT U.S. ELECTION
DUE TO HIS INVOLVEMENT IN THEN-
CANDIDATE TRUMP'S CAMPAIGN.
MR. TRUMP BEGAN THE MORNING ON
TWITTER DEFENDING THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL AND HIS FIRST MEETING
WITH RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR TO THE
U.S., SAYING IT WAS SET UP BY
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION, THEN
CLAIMED IN HIS WORDS: "JUST OUT:
THE SAME RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR THAT
MET JEFF SESSIONS VISITED THE
OBAMA WHITE HOUSE 22 TIMES AND
FOUR TIMES LAST YEAR ALONE."
THE DEFENSE OF SESSIONS WAS
FOLLOWED QUICKLY BY AN
EXTRAORDINARY BARRAGE OF
ACCUSATIONS AGAINST HIS
PREDECESSOR, BARACK OBAMA.
OFFERING NO EVIDENCE, PRESIDENT
TRUMP ACCUSED PRESIDENT OBAMA OF
TAPPING HIS PHONES AT TRUMP
TOWER DURING THE CAMPAIGN,
CLAIMING: "NOTHING FOUND.
THIS IS McCARTHYISM!"
MR. TRUMP WENT ON TO ASK: "IS IT
LEGAL FOR A SITTING PRESIDENT TO
BE WIRE TAPPING A RACE FOR
PRESIDENT PRIOR TO AN ELECTION?
A NEW LOW!"
THEN ANOTHER SAYING: "I'D BET A
GOOD LAWYER COULD MAKE A GREAT
CASE OUT OF THE FACT THAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS TAPPING MY
PHONES IN OCTOBER, JUST PRIOR TO
ELECTION!"
THEN, FINALLY: "HOW LOW HAS
PRESIDENT OBAMA GONE TO TAPP MY
PHONES DURING THE VERY SACRED
ELECTION PROCESS.
THIS IS NIXON/WATERGATE."
MR. TRUMP ENDS THE TWEET BY
CALLING MR. OBAMA A "BAD OR SICK
GUY!"
KEVIN LEWIS, A SPOKESMAN FOR
FORMER PRESIDENT OBAMA, SAID IN
A STATEMENT: "A CARDINAL RULE OF
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION WAS
THAT NO WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL
EVER INTERFERED WITH ANY
INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION LED BY
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE.
AS PART OF THAT PRACTICE,
NEITHER PRESIDENT OBAMA NOR ANY
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL EVER
ORDERED SURVEILLANCE ON ANY U.S.
CITIZEN.
ANY SUGGESTION OTHERWISE IS
SIMPLY FALSE."
BEN RHODES, A FORMER TOP
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA, FLATLY DENIED
MR. TRUMP'S CHARGES, TWEETING:
"NO PRESIDENT CAN ORDER A
WIRETAP.
THOSE RESTRICTIONS WERE PUT IN
PLACE TO PROTECT CITIZENS FROM
PEOPLE LIKE YOU."
HOUSE DEMOCRATIC LEADER NANCY
PELOSI, ALSO IN A TWEET, SAID IN
PART: "THE DEFLECTOR-IN-CHIEF IS
AT IT AGAIN."
IN THE MEANTIME, SMALL GROUPS OF
SUPPORTERS OF PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP HELD RALLIES ACROSS THE
NATION TODAY FROM PALM BEACH,
FLORIDA, NEAR PRESIDENT TRUMP'S
ESTATE, TO A STATE PARK NEAR
PHILADELPHIA.
MORE THAN A HUNDRED PEOPLE
GATHERED TO SHOW SUPPORT AT THE
WASHINGTON MONUMENT IN THE
NATION'S CAPITAL, AND OTHERS
RALLIED OUTSIDE TRUMP TOWER IN
NEW YORK CITY.
RALLIES WERE PLANNED IN 31
STATES, ACCORDING TO THE
ORGANIZERS' WEB SITE.
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION
REPORTEDLY WILL PROPOSE A 17%
CUT IN FUNDING FOR THE NATIONAL
OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
ADMINISTRATION.
THE "WASHINGTON POST" SAYS IT
OBTAINED A COPY OF A FOUR-PAGE
MEMO FROM THE WHITE HOUSE OFFICE
OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET CALLING
FOR SHARP REDUCTIONS IN NOAA'S
SATELLITE DATA DIVISION AND
OTHER RESEARCH AREAS.
THE MEMO ALSO PROPOSES DRAMATIC
CUTS IN FUNDING FOR RESTORATION
INITIATIVES SUCH AS A CLEANUP
EFFORT IN THE GREAT LAKES, THE
WORLD'S LARGEST FRESHWATER
SYSTEM.
ON TUESDAY, THE TRUMP
ADMINISTRATION IS EXPECTED TO
ANNOUNCE ROLL BACKS OF STRICT
FEDERAL REGULATIONS ON THE AUTO
INDUSTRY THAT CURB VEHICLE
POLLUTION.
THE "NEW YORK TIMES" REPORTS
THAT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY CHIEF SCOTT PRUITT AND
TRANSPORTATION SECRETARY ELAINE
CHAO WILL MAKE A JOINT
ANNOUNCEMENT RELAXING
RESTRICTIONS ON TAILPIPE CARBON
DIOXIDE EMISSIONS.
THE RESTRICTIONS WERE
INSTITUTED UNDER THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TO PROMOTE THE
DEVELOPMENT AND BUILDING OF
ELECTRIC AND HYBRID CARS.
THE ACTION WOULD NOT REQUIRE
CONGRESSIONAL APPROVAL.
IN IRAQ, THE U.N.'S WORLD HEALTH
ORGANIZATION SAID TODAY AT LEAST
12 PEOPLE, INCLUDING FIVE
CHILDREN, ARE BEING TREATED FOR
SYMPTOMS OF EXPOSURE TO CHEMICAL
AGENTS.
THIS DURING THE ONGOING BATTLE
TO RETAKE MOSUL FROM ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS.
THE VICTIMS ARE BEING TREATED IN
A HOSPITAL IN NEARBY IRBIL.
IF CONFIRMED, THE U.N. SAID USE
OF THESE WEAPONS WOULD
CONSTITUTE A WAR CRIME.
THE U.N. DID NOT SAY WHICH SIDE
MAY HAVE USED THE CHEMICAL
WEAPONS, BUT ISIS IS ALLEGED TO
HAVE USED THEM DOZENS OF TIMES
IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.
OFFICIALS SAY ALL THE VICTIMS
ARE EXPECTED TO RECOVER.
IN SOMALIA, THE PRIME MINISTER
SAYS AT LEAST 110 PEOPLE HAVE
DIED OF HUNGER IN THE PAST 48
HOURS.
THE SOMALI GOVERNMENT LAST
TUESDAY DECLARED THE COUNTRY'S
ONGOING DROUGHT A NATIONAL
DISASTER.
THE DROUGHT IS BELIEVED TO HAVE
AFFECTED SOME 1.5 MILLION
SOMALIS, INCLUDING MORE THAN
400,000 CHILDREN.
THE U.N. INCLUDED SOMALIA AS ONE
OF FOUR COUNTRIES SINGLED OUT
FOR A $4.4 BILLION AID APPEAL
LAST MONTH TO AVERT WIDESPREAD
FAMINE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE AMERICAN
MILITARY IS RAMPING UP
OPERATIONS IN THE WAR-TORN
COUNTRY OF YEMEN, WHERE A SAUDI-
LED COALITION OF MOSTLY SUNNI
COUNTRIES SUPPORTS YEMEN'S
PRESIDENT AGAINST SHIITE HOUTHI
REBELS.
THE U.S. IS ALSO ALLIED WITH THE
SAUDIS AND YEMEN'S PRESIDENT.
SINCE THURSDAY, U.S. WARPLANES
HAVE CARRIED OUT MORE THAN 30
AIR STRIKES IN YEMEN USING
AIRCRAFT AND DRONES TO TARGET
THE ISLAMIC MILITANT GROUP AL
QAEDA IN THE ARABIAN PENINSULA.
THIS FOLLOWS THE JANUARY 29
SPECIAL FORCES RAID ON THE GROUP
IN YEMEN THAT KILLED NAVY SEAL
RYAN OWENS AND SEVERAL DOZEN
YEMENIS.
FOR MORE ANALYSIS OF THE U.S.
ROLE IN YEMEN, I AM JOINED
FROM WASHINGTON BY GORDON
LUBOLD, A REPORTER FOR THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL."
SO, WHY THIS SUDDEN INTEREST IN
YEMEN?
>> I THINK THE INTEREST ACTUALLY
BEGAN WITH THE U.S. MILITARY
PRIOR TO PRESIDENT TRUMP TAKING
OFFICE IN JANUARY.
THE PROPOSAL HAD BEEN KIND OF IN
THE WORKS, BUT THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAD DECIDED TO
ALLOW MR. TRUMP TO MAKE THE
DECISIONS ABOUT HOW TO PROCEED
IN YEMEN.
AS YOU KNOW, A.Q.A.P. IS SEEN
REALLY-- AND THE PENTAGON WOULD
TELL YOU-- IS POTENTIALLY EVEN
MORE OF A THREAT TO THE U.S.
HOMELAND THAN ISLAMIC STATE IS.
SO THESE PROPOSALS WERE KIND OF
UNDER WAY, AND THEN MR. TRUMP
ACTED ON THEM, ESSENTIALLY
GRANTING THE PENTAGON BROADER
AUTHORITY TO GO AFTER A.Q.A.P.
IN YEMEN.
>> Sreenivasan: IT SEEMS LIKE
THERE ARE ALMOST TWO WARS GOING
ON-- THE SAUDIS AND IRANIANS
FIGHTING EACH OTHER AS THE PROXY
WAR, THERE'S THE HOUTHI REBELS
AND SO FORTH.
AND THEN THERE'S THIS FIGHT
AGAINST AL QAEDA IN THE ARABIAN
PENINSULA.
>> A DEFENSE OFFICIAL WAS
EXPLAINING YESTERDAY KIND OF A
CIVIL WAR WITHIN A CIVIL WAR.
BUT WHAT THE U.S. IS REALLY
CONCERNED WITH PRIMARILY IS
FIGHTING A.Q.A.P. IN CENTRAL
YEMEN AND ALONG THE COASTAL
YEMEN.
THAT INCLUDES THE AREA WHERE THE
JANUARY 29 RAID WAS.
THERE'S ABOUT MAYBE UPWARDS OF
3,000 KNOWN AL QAEDA FIGHTERS IN
THIS AREA, SO THE IDEA IS TO
KIND OF-- SOMEBODY IN THE
PENTAGON SAID KIND OF GET AFTER
IT, BUT USE INDIGENOUS FORCES
AND EMRADIS AND SAUDIS TO DO
IT.
U.S. FORCES ARE KIND OF--
THEY'RE INVOLVED ON THE GROUND.
THE PENTAGON'S LOATHE TO KIND OF
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT, BUT THERE IS
SOME PRESENCE THERE.
BUT THEY DON'T APPEAR TO BE
DOING A LOT OF GROUND COMBAT
RIGHT NOW.
>> Sreenivasan: DID ANYBODY
FROM THE PENTAGON SAY THAT THE
INTELLIGENCE GATHERED FROM THE
RAID ON JANUARY 29 IS
CONTRIBUTING TO ANY OF THESE AIR
STRIKES?
>> RIGHT, THEY ACTUALLY MADE A
POINT OF SAYING THE INTELLIGENCE
FROM THAT RAID DID NOT DRIVE
THESE STRIKES OVER THE LAST FEW
DAYS.
THEY'RE KIND OF SEPARATE AND
DISTINCT.
THAT INTELLIGENCE GATHERED
THERE, THEY'RE STILL ASSESSING
IT, AND THESE TARGETS THAT HAVE
BEEN HIT THE LAST COUPLE, FEW
DAYS, WERE ALSO ENTRAINED PRIOR
TO THE 29th RAID.
SO, REALLY NOT.
>> Sreenivasan: BASICALLY, THE
AL QAEDA AND THE ARABIAN
PENINSULA HAS FLOURISHED IN THE
MIDDLE OF THIS ACTIVE WAR.
>> THE CHAOS IN THAT COUNTRY,
YOU KNOW, KIND OF BREEDS THE
TERRORISM THAT U.S. ALLIES ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT, AND IT'S, YOU
KNOW, OBVIOUSLY A VERY POOR
COUNTRY, LARGE YOUTH BULGE, AS
THEY SAY, NOT A LOT OF WATER,
RESOURCES.
IT'S KIND OF RIPE FOR GROWING
TERRORISM, AND I THINK THAT WHAT
WE'RE SEEING AND WHY WE'RE
SEEING THIS NOW IS, YOU KNOW,
THE TRUMP ADMINISTRATION HAS A
DESIRE TO ACCELERATE THE FIGHT
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE, BUT
REALLY ALSO OTHER MILITANT
GROUPS, AND THIS ONE, AS I SAY,
IS SEEN AS POTENTIALLY
MORE OF A THREAT TO THE
AMERICAN HOMELAND.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
GORDON LUBOLD OF THE "WALL
STREET JOURNAL" JOINING US FROM
WASHINGTON, THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: AROUND THE
WORLD, THERE IS A MIGRATION
TOWARD CITIES.
A NEW DOCUMENTARY SHORT FILM
LOOKS AT INNOVATIVE WAYS SOME OF
THESE CITIES ARE TRYING TO SOLVE
THE PROBLEMS THAT COME WITH
GROWTH.
THE FILM IS CALLED "THE FUTURE
OF CITIES," AND MUCH OF THE
FOOTAGE IN THE FILM WAS
CONTRIBUTED BY AN ARMY OF
CITIZEN VIDEOGRAPHERS.
NEWSHOUR WEEKEND'S IVETTE
FELICIANO SAT DOWN WITH THE
FILMMAKER.
>> Reporter: 50% OF THE WORLD'S
POPULATION LIVE IN URBAN AREAS,
BUT THAT WILL GROW TO 70% BY THE
YEAR 2050, ACCORDING TO THE
UNITED NATIONS.
TODAY, THERE ARE 31 MEGACITIES,
METROPOLITAN AREAS WITH MORE
THAN TEN MILLION PEOPLE: TOKYO,
DELHI, SHANGHAI, MEXICO CITY,
SAO PAOLO, CAIRO.
BY 2030, THE U.N. PREDICTS THERE
WILL BE 41.
AS THE NUMBER OF CITY DWELLERS
RISES, SO DO PROBLEMS LIKE
OVERCROWDING, POLLUTION, HOUSING
SHORTAGES AND AGING
INFRASTRUCTURE LIKE MASS TRANSIT
AND HIGHWAYS.
>> SO, IS FUTURE URBANIZATION
GOING TO BE A GOOD THING OR A
BAD THING?
IF YOU CARE ABOUT PEOPLE, THIS
IS THE DEFINING QUESTION OF OUR
TIME.
>> Reporter: IN HIS NEW MINI-
DOCUMENTARY, "THE FUTURE OF
CITIES," NEW YORK-BASED DIRECTOR
OSCAR BOYSON STEPPED OUT OF THE
COMMERCIAL FILM AND TV WORLD TO
EXPLORE WHAT GOVERNMENTS,
COMMUNITIES AND EVERYDAY PEOPLE
AROUND THE GLOBE ARE DOING TO
MAKE INCREASING DENSITY IN THEIR
CITIES SUSTAINABLE FOR THE
FUTURE.
WHAT WERE THE CENTRAL PROBLEMS
THAT YOU WERE TRYING TO ADDRESS?
>> CITIES CAN GET A BAD NAME AS
FAR AS BEING DIRTY OR
CONTRIBUTING TO CONGESTION,
CARBON OUTPUT, ET CETERA.
BUT WHAT PEOPLE OFTEN DON'T
THINK ABOUT IS THAT WHEN WE ALL
ARE PACKED IN LIVING IN DENSE
QUARTERS, THERE'S SO MUCH TO
GAIN.
WE'RE USING THAT AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO INNOVATE MORE,
EXCHANGE MORE IDEAS, USE ENERGY
MORE EFFICIENTLY, USE WATER MORE
EFFICIENTLY.
AND LET'S LOOK AT EXAMPLES OF
HOW WE'RE USING DENSITY AND
DOING IT RIGHT, AND HOW THAT'S
ACTUALLY THE BEST, IF NOT THE
ONLY WAY TO SAVE THE PLANET.
>> Reporter: IN PARTNERSHIP WITH
THE NANTUCKET PROJECT-- AN IDEAS
INCUBATOR THAT HOSTS A TED TALK-
LIKE YEARLY CONFERENCE FOCUSED
ON INNOVATIONS-- AND A PRIVATE
INVESTOR, BOYSON SET OUT TO SHOW
SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTS IN
TRANSPORTATION, ENERGY AND
WATER USE THAT CAN BE REPLICATED
ALL OVER THE WORLD FROM
COUNTRIES AS VARIED AS
ICELAND...
>> GEOTHERMAL ENERGY POWER
PLANT!
>> Reporter: ...AND PERU.
>> THIS IS A FOG CATCHER, AND IT
CAN CATCH UP TO 500 LITERS OF
WATER A DAY.
>> Reporter: BOYSON PUT OUT A
GLOBAL CALL FOR IDEAS ON
YOUTUBE...
>> NICE MEETING YOU OVER THE
INTERNET.
>> Reporter: ...AND RECEIVED
MORE THAN 1,300 RESPONSES FROM
75 COUNTRIES.
>> THE FUTURE OF CITIES.
>> Reporter: MANY WHO SENT
BOYSON IDEAS AGREED TO SERVE AS
TOUR GUIDES AND VIDEOGRAPHERS
DURING HIS THREE-WEEK-LONG SHOOT
IN 16 CITIES.
OTHER PARTICIPANTS SENT HIM
VIDEO THEY'D FILMED ON THEIR
OWN.
>> THIS IS LUCAS.
WE MET ON YOUTUBE,
>> Reporter: THIS MAN IN
SANTIAGO, CHILE, INTRODUCED
BOYSON TO AN ELECTRIC RICKSHAW
THAT RESIDENTS CAN RIDE FOR
FREE.
SO, HOW DID YOU GO ABOUT
SHOOTING THIS?
HOW DID YOU GO ABOUT MEETING
THESE PEOPLE?
>> I'D NEVER MET A STRANGER ON
THE INTERNET.
I'D NEVER DONE ANYTHING LIKE
THAT.
>> YOU'RE VERY TRUSTING TO JUST
HOP IN MY CAR.
AND I'M GOING TO TAKE YOU
SOMEWHERE IN A COUNTRY YOU'VE
NEVER BEEN.
>> I WOULD SHOW UP, AND SOMEBODY
WHO'D EMAILED ME WOULD MEET ME
AT THE AIRPORT.
I WOULD SAY HI.
AND SOMETIMES THEY WERE A
PROFESSIONAL CAMERA OPERATOR OR
SOMEONE WHO WORKS IN MEDIA, AND
OTHER TIMES THEY WERE JUST
SOMEBODY WHO WANTED TO HANG OUT
AND TALK OR SHOW ME PARTS OF THE
CITY THAT THEY FIND INTERESTING.
>> Reporter: OVER THE COURSE OF
TWO WEEKS, BOYSON TRAVELED ALL
OVER THE WORLD TO PLACES LIKE
CHILE, NEW ZEALAND, MUMBAI AND
COPENHAGEN.
>> AND I THINK PART OF THE DEAL
WAS, "HEY, IF YOU HELP ME WITH
THIS VIDEO WHILE I'M IN YOUR
CITY, I'M GOING TO REALLY TAKE
THE TIME WITH THE INCREDIBLE
EDITING TEAM THAT HELPED ME TO
MAKE SOMETHING YOU'RE GOING TO
BE PROUD OF."
>> Reporter: IN SOUTH KOREA,
BOYSON VISITED WHAT URBAN
PLANNERS CALL THE WORLD'S FIRST
"SMART-CITY," SONGDO.
THIS HIGH-TECH REAL ESTATE HAS
BEEN BUILT DURING THE PAST 15
YEARS ON MUD FLATS FILLED WITH
SAND AT THE EDGE OF THE YELLOW
SEA.
SENSORS MONITOR THE CITY'S
ENERGY USE, TRAFFIC FLOW AND
WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM THAT
SENDS TRASH AND RECYCLING
THROUGH UNDERGROUND TUNNELS TO
WASTE PROCESSING CENTERS.
AND HE ALSO WENT TO SMALLER
PROJECTS IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD
LIKE THE CITIES IN NIGERIA,
PAKISTAN AND THE PHILIPPINES,
EMBRACING HOMEGROWN SOLUTIONS TO
ITS CLIMATE CHANGE-RELATED
PROBLEMS.
>> FLOODING IS AN ISSUE IN
MAKOKO, SO THEY BUILT A SCHOOL
THAT FLOATS BY USING CHEAP AND
AVAILABLE MATERIALS.
THIS WOMAN TURNS DISCARDED
PLASTIC INTO BRICKS IN KARACHI.
IN MANILA, THEY TURN WATER
BOTTLES INTO SOLAR LIGHT BULBS.
>> Reporter: BOYSON ALSO STUDIED
AMERICAN CITIES.
HE MET RESIDENT ABESS MAKKI IN
DETROIT, WHERE THE CITY'S DEBT
CRISIS CAUSED WATER SHUTOFFS IN
2014.
MAKKI CREATED CITY WATER, A
PHONE APP THAT ALLOWS RESIDENTS
TO MONITOR THEIR WATER USAGE IN
REAL TIME OR REPORT LEAKS.
>> WE'RE NO SILICON VALLEY, BUT
WE'RE TRYING TO BECOME A CITY
THAT BRINGS TOOLS AND BRINGS
SOLUTIONS AND BRINGS JOBS BACK.
>> Reporter: IN LOS ANGELES,
BOYSON FOUND ONE MAN USING HIS
SOLAR PANELS AND ATMOSPHERIC
GENERATORS TO EXTRACT CLEAN
DRINKING WATER FROM HUMID AIR.
>> EVERY BUILDING IDEALLY CAN
MAKE IT'S OWN WATER AND BE WATER
SELF-RELIANT.
>> Reporter: THEN, THERE IS THE
PROBLEM TRAFFIC AND THE AIR
POLLUTION IT CAUSES.
INSTEAD OF BUILDING LARGER
HIGHWAYS TO ACCOMMODATE MORE
CARS, BOYSON FOUND SEOUL, SOUTH
KOREA, AND SHENZHEN, CHINA, HAVE
REPLACED OLD HIGHWAYS WITH
PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES THAT HAVE
BIKE PATHS AND GREENWAYS.
IN SINGAPORE, WHERE 80% OF THE
POPULATION LIVES IN SUBSIDIZED
HIGH-RISE HOUSING, THE
GOVERNMENT CHARGES CITIZENS
HIGHER TAXES FOR THE SOCIAL
COSTS OF CAR OWNERSHIP, CAPS CAR
LEASES TO TEN YEARS AND ALSO
PLANS TO BUILD A CARLESS CITY.
>> OBVIOUSLY, SO MUCH OF 20th
CENTURY MEGACITIES WERE BUILT
AROUND THE CAR, TO SERVICE THE
CAR, WHICH WE'RE LEARNING IS NOT
NECESSARILY THE BEST THING FOR
PEOPLE, WHETHER THAT'S AIR
POLLUTION OR PEOPLE GETTING HIT
BY CARS OR RUNNING LARGE
HIGHWAYS THROUGH NEIGHBORHOODS.
>> Reporter: BOYSON WASN'T ABLE
TO INCLUDE ALL OF THE INNOVATIVE
PROJECTS INTO HIS INITIAL MINI-
DOCUMENTARY, LIKE ONE OF HIS
FAVORITE SUBMISSIONS FROM
MEDELLIN, COLOMBIA, WHICH BUILT
A GREENBELT THAT SURROUNDS THE
CITY TO BENEFIT RESIDENTS WHO
HAVE BEEN PUSHED TO THE
OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY BY
GENTRIFICATION.
>> AND IT'S GIVING THE PEOPLE
THE FURTHEST AWAY FROM THE
CENTER OF THE CITY THIS PLACE
THAT WILL PRODUCE JOBS, BUT ALSO
SHARED PUBLIC SPACE, SHARED
GREEN SPACE.
SO, I LOVE THAT IDEA.
>> Reporter: SINCE POSTING THE
"FUTURE OF CITIES" TO THE
INTERNET IN DECEMBER, BOYSON
CONTINUES TO RECEIVE UNSOLICITED
VIDEOS, AND HE AIMS TO PRODUCE A
SERIES OF SMALL FILMS.
YOU SAY IN THE FILM THAT THE
PEOPLE THAT YOU MET ARE THE ONES
THAT GAVE YOU THE MOST HOPE FOR
THE FUTURE.
WHY IS THAT?
>> I'D GET OFF A PLANE, AND I'M
WITH SOMEBODY WHO'S DONATING
THEIR TIME AND THEIR ENERGY TO
SHOW ME AROUND THEIR CITY.
AND THEIR PERSPECTIVE, THEIR
ENERGY, THEIR EFFORT IS INFORMED
JUST BY LOVE AND INTEREST,
RIGHT?
SO, THE POINT OF VIEW THAT
THEY'RE SHARING WITH ME IS
TOTALLY ABOUT A CITIZEN.
IF I HIRE A PRODUCTION SERVICES
COMPANY IN ONE OF THESE CITIES,
THEY'RE GOING TO SHOW ME WHAT
THEY THINK I WANT TO SEE.
SO, TO HAVE THIS VERY PURE
RELATIONSHIP WITH THE CITY THAT
I WAS SEEING WAS REALLY
INSPIRING AND A REAL REMINDER
THAT CITIES ARE ABOUT PEOPLE.
THEY'RE NOT ABOUT BUILDINGS,
THEY'RE NOT ABOUT CARS.
PEOPLE HAVE ALWAYS MADE THE
DIFFERENCE.
AND FEELING THAT AGAIN AND
AGAIN, WHETHER IT WAS SOMEONE I
MET IN PERSON OR JUST
CORRESPONDED WITH OVER THE
INTERNET, WAS VERY INSPIRING.
>> Sreenivasan: THE POP-UP
MAGAZINE PROJECT IS TURNING
JOURNALISM INTO A SERIES OF LIVE
PERFORMANCES.
READ MORE ON
www.pbs.org/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS WEEK,
FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
COMMISSION CHAIRMAN AJIT PAI
OUTLINED A LIST OF PROPOSALS ON
THE TABLE FOR CONSIDERATION AT
THE AGENCY'S MEETING LATER THIS
MONTH INCLUDING: BLOCKING OF
ROBOCALLS, WHICH ARE THE NUMBER
ONE COMPLAINT FROM CONSUMERS;
ENDING THE USE OF CELL PHONES IN
PRISONS; REFORMING CELL SERVICE
TO GIVE PROVIDERS MORE
FLEXIBILITY IN PROVIDING
BROADBAND TO CUSTOMERS; AND
IMPROVING THE VIDEO RELAY
SERVICE, A TOOL USED BY THE DEAF
TO COMMUNICATE USING SIGN
LANGUAGE.
JOINING ME FROM WASHINGTON TO
DISCUSS THE F.C.C. AGENDA AND
POSSIBLE POLICY CHANGES IS
"WASHINGTON POST" REPORTER BRIAN
FUNG.
BRIAN, SO LET'S START WITH THE
POSITIVE.
THE LEVEL OF TRANSPARENCY AND
EXACTLY WHAT'S GOING TO BE
COMING UP AT THE MEETING, THAT'S
KIND OF GOOD NEWS FOR ALL THE
PEOPLE AFFECTED BY IT TO KIND OF
LINE UP AND SPEAK THEIR MINDS.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THE F.C.C. PREVIOUSLY DIDN'T
HAVE TO RELEASE THE FULL TEXT OF
ANY DECISION IT MADE BEFORE IT
ACTUALLY MADE IT.
NOW, UNDER AJIT PAI, THAT POLICY
HAS CHANGED SO THE PUBLIC CAN
ACTUALLY SEE WHAT THE COMMISSION
IS GOING TO VOTE ON BEFORE THAT
ACTUALLY HAPPENS.
>> Sreenivasan: THERE'S ALSO
BEEN A LOT OF TALK ABOUT HOW
MANY STEPS AJIT PAI IS GOING TO
BE TAKING TO ROLL BACK SOME OF
THE THINGS THAT HIS PREDECESSOR,
TOM WHEELER, PUT IN PLACE,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT COMES TO NET
NEUTRALITY.
GIVE US THE BACKGROUND.
>> ALL OF THESE ITEMS THAT ARE
TAKING PLACE ON THIS MONTH'S
AGENDA ARE KIND OF COMING UNDER
THE SHADOW OF THIS BIG EFFORT
THAT MANY PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON
EXPECT TO HAPPEN SURROUNDING NET
NEUTRALITY AND BROADBAND
PRIVACY, THESE RULES THAT THE
F.C.C., UNDER PAI'S PREDECESSOR,
TOM WHEELER, PASSED IN ORDER TO
IMPOSE NEW RULES ON INTERNET
PROVIDERS.
NOW, THESE RULES THAT WERE
PASSED WERE PRETTY CONTROVERSIAL
AT THE TIME.
ALTHOUGH, MANY CONSUMER
ADVOCATES SAY THAT THEY WERE
NECESSARY TO PRESERVE A FREE AND
OPEN INTERNET.
BUT REPUBLICANS, SUCH AS PAI,
HAVE CRITICIZED THE RULE SAYING
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE OF GOVERNMENT
OVER-REACH AND WILL DEPRESS
INTERNET PROVIDER INVESTMENTS IN
THEIR NETWORKS.
>> Sreenivasan: SO SOME OF THE
CONCERNS THAT CONSUMER GROUPS
HAVE IS WHETHER OR NOT THERE
WILL BE A FAST LANE AND A SLOW
LANE.
THAT WAS THE FEAR, RIGHT, IF
TELECOM COMPANIES ARE ABLE TO
STRIKE DIFFERENT PARTNERSHIPS,
THEY CAN PROVIDE CERTAIN PIECES
OF CONTENT BETTER, WHICH MEANS
OTHER PIECES OF CONTENT MIGHT
NOT COME UP SO FAST WHEN YOU
SEARCH FOR THEM.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
NOW, IN SOME CASES, SOME
INTERNET PROVIDERS HAVE
COMMITTED NOT TO DOING THAT, BUT
THE FEAR AMONG CONSUMER
ADVOCATES IS THAT, YOU KNOW,
SOME INTERNET PROVIDERS MAY NOT
BE DISCLOSING CERTAIN NEW
BUSINESS MODELS THAT COULD
POTENTIALLY HARM CONSUMERS.
AND THE RULES ARE GENERALLY
ATTEMPT TO ADDRESS THOSE
POTENTIAL HARMS BY GIVING THE
GOVERNMENT THE POWER TO
INVESTIGATE AND GO AFTER
COMPANIES THAT ARE THINKING
ABOUT OR INTRODUCING SOME OF
THESE PROGRAMS,
>> Sreenivasan: AND THERE WAS
ALSO SOME CONCERN ABOUT THE
PRIVACY RULES THAT WENT INTO
PLACE ABOUT, YOU KNOW, RIGHT
NOW, MY CELL PHONE PROVIDER
PRETTY MUCH KNOWS EXACTLY WHERE
I AM.
THEY KNOW LOTS AND LOTS OF
THINGS ABOUT ME.
WHETHER OR NOT THEY SHOULD BE
ABLE TO SELL SOME OF THAT DATA,
EVEN IF IT'S ANONYMIZED, TO MAKE
A PROFIT.
>> EXACTLY.
SO SOME OF THE RULES THAT WERE
PASSED UNDER THE WHEELER TENURE
INVOLVED THESE PRIVACY RULES
THAT ARE BASICALLY DESIGNED TO
PREVENT INTERNET PROVIDERS FROM
ABUSING THE DATA THAT THEY
COLLECT ON CUSTOMERS LIKE YOU
AND ME.
AND SO ALL OF THE RULES THAT
WERE BUILT BY THE F.C.C. TO
ADDRESS PRIVACY ARE AIMED AT
PREVENTING INTERNET PROVIDERS
FROM ABUSING THAT LEVEL OF
INFORMATION THAT THEY HAVE ON
YOU.
BUT UNDER AJIT PAI, SOME OF
THOSE RULES ARE LIKELY TO BE
ROLLED BACK.
IN FACT, THE F.C.C. HAS ALREADY
ISSUED A PARTIAL STAY OF A
CERTAIN SLICE OF THE RULES THAT
GOVERN HOW INTERNET PROVIDERS
MUST PROTECT THE DATA THAT THEY
HAVE ON YOU TO PREVENT THAT FROM
FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF
HACKERS, FOR INSTANCE.
NOW, THE RULES MORE BROADLY HAVE
BEEN SUBJECT TO A PETITION BY
INDUSTRY TO HAVE-- TO BE ROLLED
BACK.
BUT THE F.C.C. HAS STILL YET TO
VOTE ON THAT OVERALL PETITION.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
BRIAN FUNG OF THE "WASHINGTON
POST," THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY, ONE
OF THE CENTRAL FIGURES IN THIS
WEEK'S CONTROVERSIES IN
WASHINGTON-- RUSSIA'S AMBASSADOR
TO THE UNITED STATES, SERGEY
KISLYAK-- HAS BACKED OUT OF
TONIGHT'S PRESTIGIOUS DINNER
GIVEN BY THE GRIDIRON CLUB, AN
ORGANIZATION OF JOURNALISTS
REPRESENTING MAJOR NEWS MEDIA
OUTLETS FOUNDED IN 1885.
THE RUSSIAN EMBASSY GAVE NO
REASON.
PRESIDENT TRUMP SENT HIS
REGRETS A FEW DAYS AGO.
HOWEVER, VICE PRESIDENT MIKE
PENCE WILL ATTEND, AS WILL HOUSE
DEMOCRATIC LEADER NANCY PELOSI.
THAT'S ALL FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.